---
title: Release Notes for MonoDevelop 3.0
redirect_from:
  - /Download/Release_Notes/Release_Notes_for_MonoDevelop_3.0/
  - /Download/Release_Notes/Release_Notes_for_MonoDevelop_3.0.0/
---

The MonoDevelop team is proud to announce the release of **MonoDevelop 3.0**.

MonoDevelop is an IDE primarily designed for C# and other .NET languages. MonoDevelop enables developers to quickly write desktop and ASP.NET Web applications on Linux, Windows and Mac OSX. MonoDevelop makes it easy for developers to port .NET applications created with Visual Studio to Linux and Mac OSX and to maintain a single code base for all platforms.

New Features and Improvements
-----------------------------

This release contains lots of new features and improvements. Here is a summary of the new features. You will find a more detailed description in the [What's new in MonoDevelop 3.0](/Download/What's_new_in_MonoDevelop_3.0) page.

-   New C# code completion engine
    -   More accurate and reliable code completion and navigation
    -   Much faster Find References and Rename operations
    -   Semantic highlighting for C# files
    -   More reliable on the fly code formatter
    -   Experimental source analysis and contextual fixes
-   Virtual indent mode in the text editor
-   New MonoMac addin
-   Visual UI Designer for Mono for Android
-   Revamped Assembly Browser
-   Preliminary support for Portable Library Projects (PLP)
-   Faster loading and building of large projects

And plenty of bug fixes in all MonoDevelop features.

Please see [What's new in MonoDevelop 3.0](/Download/What's_new_in_MonoDevelop_3.0) for more details.

Getting MonoDevelop
-------------------

Packages for several platforms, as well as source code tarballs and build instructions, are available in the MonoDevelop [Download](/Download) page.

This release of MonoDevelop needs at least **Mono 2.10.9 version 11** and **Gtk#2.12.8** to run.

Credits
-------

### Contributors to this Release

-   Mike Krueger (Source Editor, C# addin, Assembly Browser)
-   Jeff Stedfast (Debugger addin, MonoTouch addin, MonoMac addin, PLP support)
-   Michael Hutchinson (Mac/Windows ports, general maintenance)
-   Alan McGovern (Version Control addins, MonoTouch addin)
-   Lluis Sanchez (Android Designer)
-   Rolf Bjarne Kvinge (MonoTouch addin)
-   Atsushi Eno (Mono for Android addin)
-   Andreia Gaita (Mono for Android addin)

This list may not be complete, some contributors who sent patches by email or via our bugzilla may be missing. Your work is still greatly appreciated. If your name was left off the list, it was not intentional, please send an email to the MonoDevelop mailing list and it will be corrected as soon as possible.
